# The Plot

## Backstory

The story line starts in the beginning of the XX century. The secret conspiracy organization called *Foundation* was founded somewhere in the past of the XVIII century by a fictional character Hari Seldon, a professor of mathematics who applied strict mathematics methods of [Psychohistory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psychohistory_(fictional)) to scientifically proof the decline of the future civilization. To prevent catastrophy scenario and to rescue mankind from extinction, he established the organization based on the strong principals of faith in science and technology advance, and in faith of the man freewill to achieve this advance through the freedom of thinking, creativity and the freedom from prejudice.

To achieve their goals Foundation used to stick with certain organizational principals including conspiracy, hierarchical divsions and following a Code of Conduct. No one of the members know the rest of the members, only a few part of their working group. And only a few members of the top inner circle aware of the entire picture and involved in planning. Many of the members live normal life, have a family, friends, ordinary job, yet they also have secret life where they are taking part in Foundation's projects.

Foundation have extensive network of divisions around the world. All of the devisions are decorated as local firms, manufactures, banks and other organizations providing ordinary services, hiring stuff most of which is unaware of Foundation. Usually only the top management and key persons are secret recruits of the organization. Thereby they are capable to perform instructions coming through the network of agents from the Foundation headquarters.

Due to the decenetralized nature of the Foundation organizational structure and high level of conspiracy, they are resistent to the most external threats, and have wide range of influence capabilities. However, Foundation doesn't use these capabilities to gain any forms of personal benefits for their members, or establishing world dominance. Their primary goal is to serve the pure knowledge and discovering secrets of nature. Since that Foundation's Code of Conduct forbids direct influention to the world policy and geopolitics. Instead they use their resources to secretly recruit new members by looking and patronaging for talanted children around the world regardless of their origins or social status, but based on their talants and potential. And letting them grow and realize their potential and creativity inside Foundation using their organization's resources.

By the virtue of this way Foundation has accumulated the most intelligent people around the world by the beginning of the XX century. And thanks to their genius they reached a number of significant scientific and engineering breakthroughs including such fields as Bioengineering, Medicine, Computer Systems, Aerospce Engineering and many other amazing achievements that outperform their generation for decades if not centuries.

Yet, despite their closeness and indifference to the external world fate, Foundation shared some of their knowledges and technologies in the past in order to gain material resources required for their research projects and organization's operational expenses. And some of their sharings had controversial consequences. Few know that a number of engineering breakthroughts in Great Britain in the XVIII were not developed, but revealed by secret members of Foundation. One consequence of this influence was beginning of the era of Industrial Revolution that eventually spreaded into other countries. Another, more frightening and dangerous consequence was a progress in military technology production that brought wars into a new level of violance, increasing human deaths worldwide multiple, and also indirectly damaging planet's ecology due to mass production polutions. These consequences outspoken controdicted of Foundation's humanity principals lying under the basis of their high goals set by Hari Seldon.

For some this was a clear evidance of self-fulfilling prophecy of Seldon genius. Yet many were lesser sceptical which lead to even more tragical failed attempts in revealing of secrets of their knowledges in order to change the world for good, but everytime only increasing human suffering and death. Lessons were learned. Foundation became more caution and closed organization. However, whether they want it or not, the history continues to evolve. And eventually they will have to face the call of time that could destroy them and disclose their secrets brining the world to the point of a total disaster.
