## Solution Overview

Instead of building in different game mechanics driven by the player, let's simulate them by non-playable characters driven by the game's engine artificial intelligence in the first place. This approach presumes that AI should be smart enough to simulate social interaction between all characters on the high level of realism. Every NPC should be able to analyze current game state, game world evolution history and his personal history of interaction with other players. And be able to make individual unique decisions based on that analysis, and analysis of the character's unique profile too. The AI-driven NPCs should also be able to do a short-term and long-term strategic planning, to unite into groups, and to perform actions agreed upon group to build common projects including building up facilities, economics, and politics, organizing production lines, etc.

And the human-playable character can also influence these processes changing their direction in a desirable way through dialogs with other characters, and by the quests' completion. As such the gameplay should feel more natural for the classic RPG set but becomes much deeper and advanced once the player starts realizing gameplay mechanics and opening possibilities. Building up the right relations between other characters, understanding their motives, strengths, and weaknesses allows the player eventually reconstruct the entire game world universe the way he wants to without the use of blueprints and other strategy games genre ordinary gameplay instruments.

This approach seems to be hard to achieve on an acceptable level of realism for a first glance but is doable when the model of gameplay is well thought, designed and polished. Such models will be described in the next sections of this Document.

Also, it's worth to be mentioned that this approach doesn't exclude embeddings of the gameplay mechanics from other genres in the form of a mini-game. Let's say if certain building was designed by an NPC architect by an order of the player's character, it's fine and maybe even fun if the player puts some final changes in the design project. Like, if he changes wall materials, moves some interior objects or even adds an additional room to the building project. What's important here is that these forms of activity will not be forcefully required in primary mechanics to progress the game.
